Docs for SelectionGUI Crafting (#32)
CleanroomMC/cleanroom-website: docs/groovy-script/mods/selectionguicrafting/recipe.md

---
title: "Crafting Recipe"
titleTemplate: "Selection GUI Crafting | CleanroomMC"
description: "Creates a recipe that is shown in the specified category. Each recipe requires at least an input (placed in the offhand), tool (placed in the mainhand), and output. There can also be an optional catalyst (placed in the inventory). The recipe can have its own frame, sounds, particles, and progress bar. It also allows to specify how the sounds are played, if the recipe can be added to the crafting queue, how the output items are handed to the player, and how much durability is consumed, if the tool is a damageable item. The crafting time as well as a possible XP reward can be set as well."
source_code_link: "https://github.com/Ender-Development/selection-gui-crafting-continued/blob/master/src/main/java/io/enderdev/selectionguicrafting/integration/groovyscript/Recipe.java"
---

# Crafting Recipe (Selection GUI Crafting)

## Description

> Creates a recipe that is shown in the specified category. Each recipe requires at least an input (placed in the offhand), tool (placed in the mainhand), and output. There can also be an optional catalyst (placed in the inventory). The recipe can have its own frame, sounds, particles, and progress bar. It also allows to specify how the sounds are played, if the recipe can be added to the crafting queue, how the output items are handed to the player, and how much durability is consumed, if the tool is a damageable item. The crafting time as well as a possible XP reward can be set as well.

Reviewer: i think this `placed in the inventory` -> `placed anywhere in the inventory` would make the requirement clearer.
same thing as in `category`:
```suggestion
Creates a recipe that is shown in the specified category. Each recipe requires at least an input (placed in the offhand), tool (placed in the mainhand), and output. There can also be an optional catalyst (placed in the inventory). The recipe can have its own frame, sounds, particles, progress bar, can specify how the sounds are played, if the recipe can be added to the crafting queue, how the output items are handed to the player, how much durability is consumed if the tool is a damageable item, the crafting time, and how much XP is rewarded.
```
should also note that many of these have a fallback based on the category.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    time(int)
    ```

- `ArrayList<GsTool>`. The tool that will be used to craft the recipe. Tool refers to the mainhand item. This doesn't need to be an item with durability. The first `float` value is the multiplier for the durability consumption. The second `float` value is the multiplier for the crafting time. Requires greater than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    tool(IIngredient)
    tool(IIngredient, float)
    tool(IIngredient, float, float)
    ```

- `ResourceLocation`. The path to the frame texture. Overrides the category frame. [Textures that come with the mod](https://github.com/Ender-Development/selection-gui-crafting-continued/tree/master/src/main/resources/assets/selectionguicrafting/textures/gui/frame). (Default `selectionguicrafting:textures/gui/frame/default.png`).

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    frame(String)
    frame(ResourceLocation)
    ```

- `ArrayList<Ingredient>`. The input items that are required to craft the recipe. Input refers to the offhand item. You can add multiple inputs each with a different amount. Requires greater than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers

>     input(IIngredient)

Reviewer: should also add `Collection<IIngredient>` and `IIngredient...` methods

    ```

- `ArrayList<GsOutput>`. The output items that will be given to the player. You can add multiple outputs each with a different chance. The `float` value is the chance of the item being dropped. Requires greater than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers

>     output(ItemStack)

Reviewer: same as `input` (`Collection<ItemStack>`, `ItemStack...`) but also should include methods to accept `GsOutput` directly (and, collection/varargs of it)

    output(ItemStack, float)
    ```

- `ArrayList<GsSound>`. The sounds that will be played when the recipe is crafted. Overrides the category sounds. The first `float` value is the volume, the second `float` value is the pitch of the sound.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    sound(String, float, float)
    sound(SoundEvent, float, float)
    sound(ResourceLocation, float, float)
    ```

- `GsCatalyst`. The catalyst that will be used to craft the recipe. The catalyst is an optional additional input that must be present in the player's inventory. The `float` value is the chance of the catalyst being consumed. Requires greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    catalyst(IIngredient)
    catalyst(IIngredient, float)
    ```

> - `String`. The category that the recipe belongs to. If the category doesn't exist, it will throw an error. Requires not null.

Reviewer: in the `@Comp` annotation, add `UNI = "lang_key"` with the key being something like `the category must exist`, this should generate `Requires not null and the category must exist.`

    tool(IIngredient, float, float)
    ```

- `ResourceLocation`. The path to the frame texture. Overrides the category frame. [Textures that come with the mod](https://github.com/Ender-Development/selection-gui-crafting-continued/tree/master/src/main/resources/assets/selectionguicrafting/textures/gui/frame). (Default `selectionguicrafting:textures/gui/frame/default.png`).

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    frame(String)
    frame(ResourceLocation)
    ```

- `ArrayList<Ingredient>`. The input items that are required to craft the recipe. Input refers to the offhand item. You can add multiple inputs each with a different amount. Requires greater than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    input(IIngredient)
    input(IIngredient...)
    input(Collection<IIngredient>)
    ```

- `ArrayList<GsOutput>`. The output items that will be given to the player. You can add multiple outputs each with a different chance. The `float` value is the chance of the item being dropped. Requires greater than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    output(GsOutput)
    output(ItemStack)
    output(GsOutput...)
    output(ItemStack...)
    output(ItemStack, float)

>     output(Collection<output>)

Reviewer: checked the code, i see what this means and why it has to be done, but this is rather weird. pretty sure this is the only way to do it though.

Author: Yep I had the same reaction, I was like, hmm I don't think there is another way to do that. Let's just hope people are able to figure out how this is supposed to work.

Reviewer: im thinking of implementing something to add individual comments to the methods listed, if that existed that would be the solution here. i suppose another way would be to just accept `Object`, might be cleaner.

    ```

- `ArrayList<GsSound>`. The sounds that will be played when the recipe is crafted. Overrides the category sounds. The first `float` value is the volume, the second `float` value is the pitch of the sound.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    sound(GsSound)
    sound(String, float, float)
    sound(SoundEvent, float, float)
    sound(ResourceLocation, float, float)
    ```

- `GsCatalyst`. The catalyst that will be used to craft the recipe. The catalyst is an optional additional input that must be present in the player's inventory. The `float` value is the chance of the catalyst being consumed. Requires greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1.

    ```groovy:no-line-numbers
    catalyst(IIngredient)
    catalyst(IIngredient, float)
    ```

> - `String`. The category that the recipe belongs to. If the category doesn't exist, it will throw an error. Requires not null and the category must exist.

Reviewer: "If the category doesn't exist, it will throw an error" is redundant info now

Author: Sure will be a quick fix
